All right welcome back my students so we build a blogging system from a couple of lines of code.
Actually one line of code right BHB areason make off that that's right.
Well this system has been by default has been installed Claribel since the beginning arrays just been
there.
The only thing that we had to do was activated by creating views.
All right.
So we already have a controller called auth controller.
I'm going to show it to you in a minute.
And that controller makes sure that we can create invalidate everything.
All right.
That has to do with out indication right and I will show that to you in a minute but just know that
we have created a we have built this we have put it together really quickly right.
But I'm going to show you a couple of things because I want you to be aware of how it works.
I want you to be aware that you can do this from scratch and we're probably going to do that in a couple
lectures after this.
We're going to try to build a very simple logging system from scratch.
Now all the way from scratch because of Araba you can Clarabelle that that the whole thing is this you
.
You don't have to build everything from scratch.
Many of the things are built for you but we going to very close to building building it from scratch
OK because I want you to understand the fund the fund the foundation of our logging system Clarabell
.
But anyway so one of the first thing that I want you to know in this lecture here is that we got this
creator for us when we did the make off command and this creator for us.
All right we had a home controller for views and we have this routes.
You see this little function right here creates a whole bunch of routes that we need now show you what
I mean what routes are right.
The HP Orison route to the list Antar and if you check your routes now you should have a whole bunch
of routes that this thing created for us.
All right.
Looking there I'll try here.
So now if you take that off this
you see that.
All right so that's why the little function is doing.
Pretty cool stuff.
They make it a lot easier.
Now you would have to do this manually and that's a pain to do this manually manually.
All right cool.
All right so that's the first thing he's doing.
The second thing of course.
Right.
One of the things that he's doing is they created these folders with his files inside let's go inspect
one of these files around.
We're not going to inspect every Or every one of them because the principle is the same.
All right.
So I'm going to show it to you like this.
All right so this is the log in that Bley file.
We have some playful functionality we have some of course this is oberlé.
Has the curly brackets.
We have are the errors.
Here is the variable that is available to us in the hole in the whole application.
All right.
So is checking to see if it has a name email error.
Right.
If he if he has an e-mail where it's going I actually put a class has error in that field.
So that's going to go red.
So let's say for example.
So if we don't we don't put anything there and we do this.
We get this has error class in.
So pretty cool stuff we issue an idea on how to do this.
All right.
This is an itinerary here and I can if condition.
So that's all he's doing here is checking to see if it the you know if he has the same error again if
he does what can we do about it.
And he displays here the.
All right help block.
All right.
More stuffing here.
I mean just checking for aero guys this is the log in or I would probably have a similar functionality
for registration as well.
OK.
Very simple stuff.
All right nothing big.
All right.
Let's go back here what else can we see.
We have a whole array.
So now let me just go and log into this application and show you something else.
So right now you see that every time we log in we get redirected back to then that's all right.
And this is a home that that play that BHP file as you can see says load then.
OK.
Now how can we manage this.
How can we get redirected somewhere else.
Because you don't want to always get redirected to the what you call it to the home page right.
Well we will deal with something called off controller OK.
So let's go HTP controllers and Auth. is it's in its own folder.
Double click it.
And this is the controller that will tend to Gates and register users.
OK.
As you can see we have a property here that is assigned to that.
This is after you get redirected after you log in you get redirected to the root because that's a forward
slash that's what he means.
So if you wanted to work with Areikat to admin you go this you go like this.
All right cool.
He's doing a lot of functionality if you look at him it just makes sense everything Laro those shoes
look at the validator here makes sure that validates the user.
OK you can't change this.
This one creates the user for registration right.
So this is very simple stuff and you can modify it if you if you want to do something when the user
registers all those logs in.
OK.
Of course you have the password controller there.
And we just passing a middleware guess to it in the construct.
OK.
And again if you want to go ahead and log in dip dig deeper into this command or control click.
All right let's go to this one.
The king came to that one as well.
All right.
So with that don't worry about this stuff too much as a lot of complexity first learn how to build projects
and how to get very familiar with Clarabelle you know practicing in practice and then you start digging
deeper deeper into it once you know how to use a framework.
OK but if you know all three it's just common sense if you're beginning this can get very overwhelming
.
OK so now let's go and inspect something else real quick.
If you've got a Ph.D. my admin and we go to the Clarabelle logging system users you're going to notice
that we've got this remember me talking.
OK.
All right.
This is the talking that gets inserted when you when you use that functionality.
So if I go like this let's go to the logging system again.
Antar we are logged in are going to log out log in again
use this for a quick and now let's have this thing handy.
Let's just look at this 5G success for us.
We go now let's refresh.
You can see that remember me talking change.
All right.
That's it talking that gets answered every time we click on that little thing in there.
So that's all I remember of me talking.
I mean if I close my browser I closed all my Chrome was there and I come back to that log in.
And if you do this without doing that remember me.
That's not going to work.
You know that log in as you can see we are still logged in.
So we even have the functionality there.
Let's go back out
let's log in and if you forgot your password we also have a password reset link functionality.
All right.
Now we do have to set up our e-mail for that so that's super simple.
But anyway thank you so much and I hope this little tour into what's going on here was OK for you.
All right.
Again young and I always give you resources at the end of the sections or lectures.
Always make sure that you check for links so that way you can dig deeper into this functionalities.
Thank you so much for watching.
And I see you in the next lectures